Now, there are some of us
who don't even believe
he's human.
- We think he might be a spirit.
- He's most assuredly human.
There was a massacre
in New Paltz.
It's possible it was committed
by a man named Beecham...
John Beecham.
Do you think
it was an accident?
His throat was cut
from ear to ear.
Tell us about your brother.
I came across him sitting
astride a dead striker.
A young man.
A boy, really.
He was stabbing at the body
with a knife, over and over.
Dr. Kreizler!
Run!
- Uhh!
- Aah!
"...And if thou wilt, remember,
and if thou wilt, forget,
I shall not see the shadows,
I shall not feel the rain,
I shall not hear
the nightingale sing on,
as if in pain.
And dreaming
through the twilight,
that doth not rise nor set,
haply I may remember,
and haply may forget."
I'm so very sorry.
My deepest condolences.
Thank you.
Please forgive me
for offering you the same advice
you once gave me.
You are not alone
in your sorrow,
and there's no shame in grieving
for those you love.
Laszlo.
It's over.
This wretched investigation
is over.
Laszlo, give yourself
a few days before you...
Before I what?
Before I get you killed, too?
You weren't responsible
for her death.
Who, then, if not me?
So there we were,
waitin' outside the house
for the doctor to return.
And the Indian lass,
she invited us in.
"Would you like a lovely cup
of tea?" she said.
She invited you in
for a cup of tea?
I could tell
that she was interested
in more than a cup of tea.
So I made myself scarce.
Mary couldn't speak.
I wasn't being literal,
Detective Sergeant.
She said it with her eyes.
Know what I mean?
You saw her lead Connor
up to the bedroom?
By the nose.
So when'd she fetch the knife?
Well...
I suppose she had it hidden,
up her petticoat the whole time.
You expect us to believe you?
I expect you to believe me
over Sambo
and some half-wit stable boy.
Whoa! Whoa, whoa.
Marcus.
- Marcus.
- Look at youse.
A couple of heebs
playin' at cops.
All right, wait,
here's one for
the literary scholars among you.
Who is the greatest
killer of chickens
in all of Shakespeare's plays?
That would
be Macbeth because
he committed murder
most "fowl."
Hello, Commissioner.
You look like
you're on your way to church.
Here.
Why don't you take a pew?
I've been to a funeral.
Have you, now?
One could say you bear
some of the responsibility.
You and the police force you
built over the last 30 years.
You know, you got rioting
in the Points.
You got a multimurderer
on the loose,
and you come walking in here,
accusing me of crimes
brought on by your own
lack of leadership.
And where would I find good men
in the department to lead?
Men, good or bad, do not follow
what they don't respect.
And what is it that
you teach them to respect?
I taught them to respect
a badge...
...and a uniform...
...and all they stand for.
What they do not respect
is weakness.
Now, don't you have
more pressing issues
other than making false
allegations against an old man
who's just trying to enjoy
the fruits of his retirement?
Weakness is hiding
in the past, old man.
I'm afraid it's no use.
I've spoken to Laszlo,
and he won't... or can't...
change his mind.
Then we'll have to continue
without him.
I know how much
of an opportunity this is.
I know how much it
could help convince...
Please don't insult me.
Do you honestly believe I'm
doing this to advance myself?
I'm doing this because I want
to sleep soundly again.
What happens when
the next boy is killed?
I'm not talking about
what happens.
I'm talking about
what's possible.
And is it possible for you
to walk away from this?
Because I can't.
Dr. Kreizler's withdrawn
because he's been hurt,
as badly as anyone can be.
But we have a duty to go on.
But we don't have the knowledge
or the know-how.
We have a name.
We have a suspect.
I believe Japheth Dury
killed his parents
and a man named George Beecham.
He took his name,
or part of it,
and became John Beecham.
All we have to do is find him.
What is this place?
It used to be a saloon
before the commissioner's
Sunday licensing laws
put it out of business.
Welcome to our new headquarters.
I followed him to his place.
Connor.
He lives in Brooklyn.
They're the only family
in the house.
Even got a yard
and an outhouse.
It ain't fair
he's living like that
and Mary's in the ground.
It's a pity
she didn't finish him off,
because if I got the chance,
I would
stick a shank in his throat.
You ain't got to cut
a man's throat to kill him.
All you got to do is...
...cut a man on his leg,
nick a vein, you put him away
right quick.
None of the murders have
taken place above 14th Street.
Then we should
narrow our inquiries
to Greenwich Village
and the Lower East Side.
That's only half the population
of the city.
He... He knows his way
around the rooftops.
Perhaps his profession
is somehow connected.
Churches and charities use the
rooftops to get around the city.
Then why don't
we knock on some doors and...
We don't have time.
We need to narrow down
our possibilities quickly.
The Feast of St. Barnabas
is only eight days away,
and we know
he won't stop killing.
We have until the 11th.
Then perhaps we should
involve the police.
We are the police.
Why did Japheth Dury change
his name to John Beecham
when the man who violated him
was named George Beecham?
Why take only his surname?
There could be
some twisted logic to it.
By taking his name
or part of it,
he changes from victim
to tormentor.
And by doing so,
assumes the identity
of the man who betrayed him
and in turn betrays boys
who trust him.
Yes, but why John
and not George?
We know that John Beecham
was released
from St. Elizabeth's Hospital
in the summer of 1890,
and the murders of the Zweig
twins occurred in 1893.
If it was the same man,
where was he
those intervening years?
If I had your name and wanted
to know where you lived,
where would I go,
Detective Sergeant Isaacson?
Police records.
Let's say you don't have
a police record.
Official hours are over.
We're with
the police department.
Uh, we were wondering
if we could have a word
with Mr. Charles Murray.
And what is the purpose
of your inquiry?
We'd like to check
the census records
for the name of a man
we're trying to find.
Stop!
The Lower East Side wards.
John Beecham.
146 Allan Street.
Aged two years.
That would make him eight now.
Nine, eight,
seven, six,
five, four,
three, two,
one!
Perhaps he did
change his name.
Or moved to New York
after the census.
Fee-fi-fo-fum.
I smell the blood
of an Englishman.
Fee-fi-fo-fum.
I smell the blood
of an Englishman.
What is it?
Look at this.
Fee-fi-fo-fum.
I smell the blood
of an Englishman.
Fee-fi-fo-fum.
I smell the blood
of an Englishman.
Look at the bottom
of the page.
He's here.
He's real.
Hey!
You kids can't be here!
I don't see what business
it is of the commissioner
to inquire
into our employment practices.
We'd be happy to explain that
to Mr. Murray.
I am Mr. Murray.
Mr. Beecham's brother
may be involved
in a land speculation scandal.
The commissioner thought
that John might be able
to help us locate him.
Mm, I hired Beecham
as an enumerator...
the men who did the counting
and the interviewing
for the census...
in the spring of '90.
I hired 900 such men.
900,
and you still remember him?
I remember all the men
who work for me.
And he was particularly hard
to forget.
He had a rather
unfortunate appearance.
I was concerned that
people would be unwilling
to allow him into their homes.
You mean he had
a disfigurement?
A facial spasm of some kind.
I'm not a doctor.
- But you hired him anyway?
- He was a decent fellow.
Polite. Religious.
Scrupulous.
Personally, I never gave much
credence to the allegations.
What allegations?
I had to fire him
after a complaint
from a Jewish family.
They claimed he had been
visiting their daughter
on several occasions
when he wasn't scheduled
for an interview.
- How old was their daughter?
- 12 at the time.
But I'm sure
you appreciate it
that girls of that age
have vivid imaginations.
And people of the Hebrew faith
even more so.
You haven't, by any chance,
kept his employment records?
We're the census department.
We keep everything.
They seem similar.
And this over here,
near the top of the page?
That's his address, of course.
Whoa.
This is the address
that he gave.
23 Bank Street.
I'd feel much safer
if there were
a couple of roundsmen present.
Not after
they shot you in the back.
Hello?
I'm sorry, dear.
I frightened ya.
We apologize.
The door was unlocked.
Oh! Silly me. Are you inquiring
about the room?
Yes.
Our friends
are looking for lodgings.
They've gone upstairs.
I'm afraid I only have the one
room available right now.
- Have you any other lodgers?
- Just the kitties. For now.
An acquaintance of mine,
John Beecham,
gave me your address, ma'am.
Ah, dear Mr. Beecham.
Not a friend of the kitties.
Yet he spoke so highly of you.
I believe he was with you
for some time?
Almost six years.
He left last Christmas, after
he lost his job, poor man.
I remember.
It was the same day
that Jib ran away.
- Jib?
- My tabby.
He never told me
he lost his job.
Was that at the Census Bureau?
Oh, no.
He was a charity worker.
What kind of an employer
dismisses a charity worker
at Christmas?
And is it his room
you're letting out?
I haven't had any lodgers
since he left.
It's a cozy little room.
Take a look for yourself.
Just along the corridor.
Ohh.
Something died.
Evening, Miss Howard.
- What do you want?
- Ah, nothing much.
Now that I'm no longer
gainfully employed,
sure,
the world's my oyster.
May I walk you home?
You may not.
If you idle here
a moment longer,
I shall alert one of
your former colleagues.
Oh.
Well, good luck finding one
at this time of night.
Still trying to be a detective,
are you, Miss Howard?
Get out of my way.
You don't want me
to see you home?
Well, you best be careful
is all.
All it takes is for someone
to come up behind you,
clasp a hand around your mouth,
and force you to your knees,
and you'll never know
who it was put it inside you.
Whoo!
No.
Don't worry, girls.
He's with me.
Keep an eye out, Maxie.
We won't be long.
What are you doing
out on the street?
The cops threw us out.
Where else we got to go?
You find a room
in a rescue society.
And if they don't take you,
you go to a boardinghouse.
Here.
There's enough money there.
If you need any more,
you just ask.
I don't want you working
or living on the street.
Understand?
You sure what you told me
about the man you're looking for
is right?
Yes.
It's just a friend of mine
met someone
who promised to take him away
to live with him.
What of his face?
He didn't say there was
anything wrong with his face.
I asked.
What if I were the killer?
Yeah, no offense,
Mr. Moore,
but there's more chance
of pigs flying.
Well, I ask because
the man we're looking for
may not be a client.
He might have a job
that allows him
to get close to you boys
and win your trust.
A charity worker,
for example.
Yeah, I wouldn't trust
those sons of bitches
as far as I could kick 'em.
They just pretend to care
so they can cop a feel.
A preacher then,
or... or a medical worker?
Did Fatima ever mention to you
what his saint did for a living?
Can you think of any reason
why he would've trusted him?
All he said was the man was
nothing like his father,
that he hated his father
more than anything in the world.
How am I supposed
to keep goin' with that din?
It's all that whisky
you been drinkin'.
Don't you blame my Nievie.
Gosh damn you, woman.
And your Nievie!
Cyrus?
You called, sir?
For Cyrus.
Where is he?
Jesus Christ!
Scared me.
- What are you doin' out here?
- Same as you.
Oh, yeah? Go on, then,
if you can find the wee thing.
Fat bastard.
Broyt is "bread" in English.
Lena, repeat after me,
"The bread is stale."
Ze bruht ist stehl.
"The." "The."
Yes, I remember him.
Your parents filed a complaint.
May I ask what you told them?
Only that he was my friend.
What exactly do you mean
by "friend"?
I mean friend.
I teach English.
I know what the word means.
I'm sorry we have to ask,
but did he lay hands on you?
Not once.
I made that clear
to my parents,
but they filed the complaint
about him anyway.
When you were together,
what did you talk about?
How much I hated my parents.
And all these years later,
why do you think
a grown man would befriend
a 12-year-old girl?
I think he wanted
someone to talk to.
I don't think he had
many friends.
Hello.
My name is Detective Sergeant
Lucius Isaacson.
George Beecham.
- Do you recognize his face?
- No.
Hey, boys.
Boys.
Have you seen this man?
- No.
- No, I haven't.
The Feast of St. Barnabas.
Do you think
it has meaning for him?
Everything has meaning
for him.
Whatever he does,
it allows him
to befriend these boys.
The teacher we questioned,
Ellie Leshka,
used the word "friend"
about him several times.
And we should keep talking
to charity organizations
and church volunteers.
Boys like these must have
nothing but contempt
for charity workers.
As a census officer,
Beecham would most probably have
dealt with their parents.
He hated his father more than
anything in the world.
That's what Joseph said
about Ali ibn-Ghazi.
He hated his father more
than anything in the world.
And Ellie Leshka
said something similar, no?
"How much I hate my parents."
And Giorgio Santorelli
was beaten.
Think of it.
It's like
he can read their minds.
He knows all about them...
their wretched childhoods,
the beatings, the poverty.
Everything he says
chimes with them.
He understands them.
That's why they trust him.
What else do we know
about Ali's father
other than the fact
that his son hated him?
Joseph told me Fatima's father
was a gambler.
Giorgio's brother
said the same thing.
Mr. Santorelli owed money.
Mr. ibn-Ghazi
was in debt to you?
He was in debt to the people
I work for.
I collect for everybody
in the neighborhood.
- Or my guys do.
- Your guys?
I'm a little too old to be
knocking down doors myself.
Ibn whatever-his-name
was a testy son of a bitch.
The first man I sent 'round
came back with a broken nose,
so I had to send
a bigger fella.
- Do you have his name?
- The people who work for me
don't volunteer their names,
so I don't ask.
Maybe you should start.
You know,
you don't look like a cop.
Yes, I've heard that.
John something-or-other.
Had something wrong with his...
Do you know where he lives?
That I don't know,
but I can tell you
where he's likely to be.
Lucius,
you and Miss Howard stay here,
keep watch.
Don't want the drinks?
Information.
About a customer.
Get out.
John Beecham.
Tall fella.
Facial tic.
End of the street.
Three-story house,
second floor.
You heard nothin' from me.
That's no man to cross.
Jump in the water and scram!
We're about to close.
You coming in?
You go ahead.
I'm gonna get changed.
Time to go home, boys!
This way!
Is he looking?
No.
Why?
I'm meeting someone.
I'll s-see you later.
Giorgio.
Ali.
Ernst Lohmann.
Today.
We may be too late.
Beers and smokes are on me,
boys.
Maxie, you son of a bitch!
What was the line in the letter
about Giorgio?
"It fed me for a week."
Is that you?
His father's pictures.
John.
What is it?
It's a heart.
How many have there been?